Hello everyone and welcome back to the continuation of five javascript objects.
Let's continue by discussing object methods object methods are essentially functions that are inside
of an object.
For example imagine we have our car in full object in the previous lecture we have the make year and
model and then we actually input a function there as the value for a key.
So the key is car alert and the value there is an actual function call and the function call just says
alert.
We've got a car here and then we can actually call that method off of the car info object meaning we
can actually call methods off objects and they essentially act those functions inside of an object.
Now more realistically what you're going to want to do is use key value pairs from the object itself.
And in that case you're going to need to use a special this keyword.
And the this keyword can be confusing for beginners at first so don't worry if you don't immediately
fully grasp it.
We're going to be seeing it when we talk about Jake queery But again coming back to the previous example
here my function doesn't actually use any information that pertains to the object.
It doesn't use the make your model.
It's just the function that gives a basic alert.
But imagine I want to actually use some of those key value pairs from the object itself.
Well the this keyword acts differently depending on the situation or a javascript object.
This keyword is set to the object.
The method is called on.
Let me show you an example of what I mean by that imagine I have this very simple object where it just
has one singular property and that is the number 37.
If I wanted a function called Report property I should say a method called Report Propp inside of my
object that I call report Propp function and it returns this stop Propp where this is acting as a reference
to the actual object.
And then if I were to say something like cancel the log.
My object that report Propp with the Call it would log seven into the console screen.
All right.
Here's a really good link for more details on the this keyword.
Again it behaves differently in different situations and we're only really concerned about it right
now as it behaves in an object in reference to methods.
So let's cut out a few more examples of object methods to get a better grasp on everything that I just
briefly mentioned moins hop over to the console now.
All right.
Here I am at the actual console.
Let's create a very simple object we'll call it the variable simple and it's going to be an object with
a property we'll call it Propp and that property is Will say hello and then it's going to have a method
inside of it and we'll call this method my method just to make it very clear.
Everything that's going on here.
And then I use the function keyword close parentheses so it doesn't actually have any parameters there.
And then I'm going to say Alert.
Actually it's make this a console that log and it's going to console log the my method was called
and then let's close off these parentheses here.
So there is simple.
So again simple as an object and no to actually show simple.
It doesn't display the methods It just displays objects with the single property that key value pair
Propp hello.
If I say console Diyar an impasse and simple there I see an object that I can continue to expand to
see my method and that property again you could have also continue to expand appear but that's just
a simple note depending on what browser are you using.
You may find it easier to say console dot the.
Anyways back to actually learning how to use this method.
I want to call the method I just say simple dot and then call my method and if I call my method here
without any close parentheses and enter then it just reports back.
The actual method inside of the object just like when we're calling functions we need to actually have
an open set in close parentheses on it.
That way I can execute the function which means I will call that my method close parentheses.
And here it says the.
My method was called Perfect.
That's exactly what we expected.
So again just to review here you have the property.
There it is with the key value of prayer.
And here you have my method.
We do a function call and then inside these clearly brackets whatever we want to actually execute whenever
we call that method off of this function.
Now let's see how we can use actual properties that are already in the object inside of my method.
So I'm going to clear this all right so to show the use of the this keyword are going to create a new
variable and we'll call it my Obie J for my object and I will set it equal to an object.
The object is going to just have one property will say it's the name and the name is going to be Jose
or you can just fill in whatever name you want there and then let's actually give it a method and we'll
call this method great where we actually greet who's ever name isn't my object here.
So I have three and I'm going to call the function keyword curly brackets and then here I'm going to
say console log and I want to say hello and then concatenate the name in my object and the way I do
this is by using the this keyword I call this dot and then I actually pass in whatever property I want
the key to that value pair and in that case it's going to be name.
So I say this name and refers to the current object thymine whatever property that is and that's how
we can actually create a method that uses properties of the object we are currently in.
So when you do now is actually close off and balance off these brackets here.
Let's make sure that works when we hit enter there.
Okay perfect.
And then I'm going to call my object.
It's an object with a name I want to see that name I could also just say name Jose.
And now let's check to see if it actually worked.
When I call.
So called greets and remember just like a function.
If I don't have open and close parentheses here enter nothing sinister.
So I need to open and close the Sprint see actually execute this.
And it says Hello Jose.
So I forgot to put a little space after hello.
So let's fix that and come back up here.
There's my object.
Let's fix that by putting a space in there and let's call my object again.
And then I say Hello Jose.
OK.
And that's really the basics of object methods as far as we need to know them.
Again the main thing to get out here is that an object method is simply just like a function call inside
of a key value pair.
And if you want to use the properties of the current object you're in.
All you have to do is use the this keyword and syntax highlighting will show you that it's a keyword
and then you say dots and then whatever the property name you want to use it.
OK so hopefully you have a better understanding now of how objects actually work in javascript how to
create methods inside of an object and how to use that.
This keyword coming up next is an exercise.
Everything we learned about javascript objects.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.